# Rules of the Association

This is a translated version of the official rules. These are not the
effective rules, if there is a disparency between this and the
original version.

## 1. Association name and domicile

The name of the Association is Revolutionary Games Studio ry, and its
domicile is Oulu.

## 2. Purpose and form of activities

The purpose of the Association is support video games as a hobby and
doing activities together. The Association develops and distributes
the Thrive game. Thrive is a game about the evolution of life in which
the player controls a species from a unicellular level of life to the
space age. The source code of the game will be distributed under an
open-source code license for the platforms that allow the source code
used by applications to be distributed following the terms and
conditions of the license. The graphics, music, templates and other
resources included in the game (other content than the source code),
will also be distributed under a free license, which is similar, in
terms of its philosophy, as open-source code licenses.

In order to achieve its purpose, the Association shall collect funds
and use them to promote the development of Thrive as well as to carry
out activities that support development and distribution. For the
purpose of collecting funds, the Association can sell access to
individuals outside the development team, to new game versions in
advance, offer exclusive messages on the development of the game,
offer alternative downloads to premade packages of Thrive or offer
Thrive on platforms, which cannot provide the game in the form of a
source code. The Board of the Association can also decide to sell
similar services and products, which are not directly included in the
aforementioned list. The Board of the Association can also choose to
collect funds in the form of donations.

## 3. Members

An individual who accepts the purpose of the Association can be
accepted as a permanent member of the Association. A private
individual or community with legal capacity, who wishes to support the
purpose and activities of the Association, can be accepted as a
supporting member. Actual members and supporting members are approved
upon application by the Association's Board. Upon the Board’s
proposal, an individual who has significantly promoted and supported
the activities of the Association can be invited as Honorary President
or honorary member at the Association's meeting.

Suppose a member of the Association has caused significant damages to
the Association, and it is apparent that the damages are
continuing. In that case, the Association's Board can vote for the
said member to be dismissed. In other cases, the dismissal of a member
is reviewed at the Association's meeting. If the Board has dismissed a
member, the said member can request that the dismissal is reviewed
again at the Association's next meeting. The request must be made
within three months of the dismissal. After the request has been
received it has to be handled in the next Association's meeting so
that handling the request takes a maximum of 13 months.

## 4. Accession and membership fee

The amount of the accession fee and annual membership fee for
permanent members and supporting members shall be decided individually
for each member group by the General Meeting. The Honorary President
and honorary members are liable to pay membership fees. If a member
has not paid the membership fee within six months following the due
date, the Board of the Association can decide on the dismissal of the
said member based on non-payment of the membership fee.

## 5. Board

The matters of the Association are handled by the Board that includes
the President and 2-8 other permanent members as well as 0-8 deputy
members who are elected at the General Meeting. The term of office of
the Board is the period between General Meetings. The Board selects
from amongst its members a Vice President and the Board also appoints
a Secretary, Treasurer as well as other necessary personnel from
amongst its members or from outside the Board. The Board convenes at
the invitation of the President or, if the President is unavailable,
the Vice President, when they deem it necessary or when at least half
of the members of the Board demand it. The Board constitutes a quorum
when half of the members of the Board, as well as the President or
Vice President, are present. For the Board to have decision-making
power, the President or Vice President must be present. Votes are
decided by absolute majority. If the votes are tied, the President
will cast the deciding vote, except in elections where tied votes are
decided by drawing lots.

## 6. Signing authority for the Association

The Board’s President may independently sign on behalf of the
Association, the Vice President, Secretary or Treasurer may sign on
behalf of the Association, two together.

## 7. Accounting period

The accounting period of the Association is the calendar year.

## 8. Meetings of the Association

The meetings of the association can also be participated in remotely
upon the decision of the Board or the meeting of the Association. The
meetings of the Association shall be held in English unless all the
participants of the meeting speak another common language. The General
Meeting of the Association shall be held annually on a date defined by
the Board in May-August. At meetings of the Association each permanent
member, the Honorary President and honorary member have one vote. The
current and former members of the Board of the Association, if they
are still members of the Association, have two votes in each
voting. Supporting members have the right to presence and the right to
speak. The decision of the meeting of the Association is unless
otherwise stipulated in the rules, the opinion that received over half
of the votes that were cast. If the votes are tied, the chairperson of
the meeting will cast the deciding vote, except in elections where
tied votes are decided by drawing lots.

In elections, the voting is carried out by placing the candidates in
order of preference. An acceptable vote must include at least a
primary candidate. The counting of votes is carried out in such a way
that the candidate marked first receives the number of votes held by
the voter, the next candidate receives half of the voter’s votes, and
the third receives a third and so on. The elected candidates are
determined in accordance with the number of votes.

## 9. Convening the meetings of the Association

The Board must convene the meetings of the Association at least seven
days before the meeting by email or post.

## 10. General meeting

The following matters are handled at the General Meeting of the Association:
1. opening of the meeting
2. selecting the chairperson, secretary, two examiners for the minutes
   and, if necessary, two vote counters
3. establishing the legality and quorum of the meeting
4. approving the agenda for the meeting
5. presenting the financial statement, annual report and statement
   from the performance auditors/financial auditors
6. deciding on the confirmation of the financial statement and
   granting the Board and other responsible persons the freedom from
   liability
7. confirming the operating plan, ingoing and outgoing estimate as
   well as the amounts of the accession and membership fees
8. selecting the President and the other members of the Board
9. selecting one or two performance auditors and deputy performance
   auditors, or one or two financial auditors and deputy financial
   auditors
10. handling the other matters mentioned in the meeting invitation.

If a member of the Association wants to include some specific matter
in the agenda of the Association’s General Meeting, they must notify
the Board of this in writing sufficiently in advance so that the issue
can be included in the meeting invitation.

## 11. Changing the rules and dissolving the Association

The decision on changing the rules and dissolving the Association must
be made in a meeting of the Association by a majority of at least
three quarters (3/4) of the votes given. The meeting invitation must
mention that meeting will include a motion to change the rules or
dissolve the Association. If the Association is dissolved, its funds
will be used to advance the purpose of the Association in the manner
specified by the meeting that decided to dissolve the Association. If
the Association is abolished, its funds will be used for the same
purpose.
